////
SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-4.0
////

:leveloffset: 1
= RVI Toolchain & Runtimes HSC Meeting

Thursday, Dec 17, 2020

== Introduction

== uMON monitor code (Marc Karasek - InspireSemi)

* Marc gives an overview about the tool and its potential use-cases.
* Marc would be happy to get contributions from the community.

== SIG code speed charter approval discussion

* Jeremy is presenting the charter
* Evandro says that the wording of the goals can be interpreted as if non-commercial
  players are not welcome (by targeting exclusively and explicitly commerial players).
  He proposes to change the wording to explicitly mention non-commercial players as well,
  as the currently carry a lot of work.
* Jeremy agrees and states, that non-commercial players are not intentionally excluded,
  but wants to push harder to get commercial players onboard.
* Mark states we need to support both. He proposes to work on the wording.
* Follow-up discussion about goals of a SIG.
* Discussion interrupted because of time constaints

== psABI/UABI TG & EABI TG: current status

* Christoph provides the current status
** This TG needs to be up and running asap
** Potential chairs have just been collected
** Individual calls with the potential chairs will be held according to availability
   of involved people (most likely in early January)
* Philipp asks about the recent renaming from psABI to UABI
  and if that was also a change of the scope of the TG
* Jim describes the origins of the terms
** Mark asks for somebody to come up with a proposal
* * Evandro will work on that.

== Policy for vendor-specific toolchain extensions

* Christoph mentions the vendor-specific toolchain extension policy proposals on the mailing list.
* Christoph would like to see in a policy the resolution process in case of a future conflict
* Jeremy presents his proposal
* Lively discussion, where Mark states "whatever you decide, make it documented"
* Philipp raises concerns about the impact to generic platforms (Linux distros)
  
== Open topics

