////
SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-4.0
////

:leveloffset: 1
= RVI Toolchain & Runtimes TS Meeting

Thursday, Nov 5, 2020

== Introduction

== Review of charter

*  Jeremy: Charter is quite wide and we might not be able to address all at once
*  Jeremy: Shorten/summarize the charter
*  Jeremy: Promote a commercial ecosystem as part of the charter
*  Mark: Prioritize the charter lists
*  Mark: Enable members to make money from RISC-V
*  Marc: Create three main points and a fourth point: talking about the commercial aspects
*  Evandro: How to address commercial aspects?
*  Marc: We need a way to make RISC-V attractive for big companies (e.g. Red Hat)
*  Mark: We have people already on board (Embecosm, Mentor, etc.). What we can do is to
**  educate people about what we do, and
**  do a gap analysis and deliver solutions there
* Philipp: ISV outreach is trying to address the commercial aspects
* Philipp: Regarding the wide agenda, the plan is to have TGs/SIGs with a more narrow focus

== Role of a TS within RISC-V international

== Priorities

* Bringing existing task-groups under the Technical Subcommittee

* Bridging the "Java gap"
** OpenJDK port is needed
** CAS is working on that
* Coordinate JavaScript V8 efforts
** Two groups were working on a RISC-V port -> we should avoid that in the future
* Support a more quantitative approach to ISA extensions

* Mark: Who is the user, how can they use it?
** Look at SW as a horizontal: SW needs to make a sign-off
** SW has authority to spawn SIGs
* Marc: How to deal with external extensions (e.g. an external bit-manip extension that a vendor wants to standardize that)?
** Jeremey: We should be attractive vendor-specific extensions.
** Mark: Fully agrees, but we should avoid duplication.
** Evandro: Bring vendors together if they do similar things.
** Mark: We should encourage vendors to do that.

* Discussion about the actual Alibaba's bit-manip extension and the GCC patches to support that
** General discussion on how to deal with such extensions.
** Comments from Mark
*** We need to provide room for vendor-specific extensions
*** We should encourage vendors to share their extensions
*** We need to lead the community to share and work together

== Formation of a Managed Runtimes TG

* skipped, because we ran out of time

== Open discussion

* Fortran support for HPC
** Marc: There is a need for Fortran support for HPC people
** Wei: Fortran support is already in the LLVM metal repo (flang)

* V8 port of CAS
** Wei: Brice Dobry is working on the V8 port
** Brice: Working with Google in fixing the latest bugs before mainlining. At the moment it is in the review process.
** Wei: Target is to get the port into V8 8.9 or 8.10.

