////
SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-4.0
////

:leveloffset: 1
= RVI Toolchain & Runtimes HSC Meeting

Thursday, January 14, 2021

== Introduction

== psABI TG: current status

* Christoph reports the status of the TG creation:
** Interviews in progress
** Working on formal steps of the inception phase as defined in Groups, Chair and Vice-Chair Approval Policy
*** description and preliminary charter (incl. deliverables) in an internal review
*** formal email of open positions in preparation
*** decision and forwarding to TSC for approval: end of next week
**Link to psABI repo: https://github.com/riscv/riscv-elf-psabi-doc/blob/master/riscv-elf.md

* Mark summarizes the policy and its purpose and states, that he is open to recommendations in order to make it more understandable:
  https://docs.google.com/document/d/14ZpciYwIzmuiB92_hKfwTAttTnc3rsLbWI-CpC7MdC8/edit?pli=1

== Managed Runtime TG: current status

* Christoph reports the status of the TG creation:
** Interviews in coordination
*** Working on formal steps of the inception phase as defined in Groups, Chair and Vice-Chair Approval Policy
*** description and preliminary charter (incl. deliverables) in an internal review
*** formal email of open positions in preparation
*** decision and forwarding to TSC for approval: end of next week
* Discussion about splitting this TG from the beginning (on the mailing list)
** We agreed to not follow this idea

* Jeremey asks if, given the number of runtimes managed by this TG, it should not better be a SIG.
** Philipp: mentions, that there were discussions about that already, and that the decision was to go for a TG.

== Updates from SW projects

* Wei reports the status of V8 and OpenJDK
** OpenJDK: RISCV64G port in OpenJDK11
*** Bugfixes
*** Working on upstreaming
*** PLCT will implement TV32G port in 2021
** V8: Upstreaming; Improving code speed; Vector
*** Rebased, Upstreaming work
*** Defined new roadmap for 2021: optimization, nodejs, WASM

* Phil asks Mark to provide an overview of the new structure
https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1eEVuu6lRZd9iiDnZQSZME7Q7svtTG3pGIKHPmZ79B8E/edit#slide=id.p1

== Policy on GNU tool chain acceptance criteria (Tariq and Jeremy)

* Tariq and Jeremy present their proposal for a Policy on GNU tool chain acceptance criteria
  https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Eio39QTHNM9Lmi1VXoH7PYLgBGUscvpdPxB6YmZonVk
* There are a couple of questions and requests for a review period
* Tariq will put the document on the T&R list for review (2 weeks)

== Proposal to move T&R meeting time to 07:00 Pacific Time (15:00 UTC)

* Rationale:
** much of our current activity is currently being carried out by PLCT lab at the Chinese Academy of Sciences
** It is very hard for them to have a fortnightly meeting that starts at 01:00
** The current start time is also outside the working day for groups in mainland and eastern Europe
** 7:00 am Pacific Time = 15:00 UTC = 23:00 China Time
** The idea to move to a different time slot is appreciated
** However, there is not common time found, where this talk can be held
** Christoph will create a Doodle (or find a better way) to find a better time slot

== Proposal of the Performance Tracking System (PTS) and a new TG for it

* Wei presents his proposal for a PTS and how a TG could maintain that
  https://github.com/riscv/riscv-code-speed-optimization/blob/main/projects/infrastructure-for-perf-tracking.adoc
  https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1qnfq586siCe-jNoA938cABYiaEBZ0tTyuyqDCKxrW04/edit?usp=sharing
* Mark mentions, that there is a TG starting up, which aims to keep track of any kind of performance regressions. He suggests, that the infrastructure could be shared.
* Jeremy mentions, that this TG would make the output of SIG code speed more visible.

