////
SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-4.0
////

:leveloffset: 1
= RVI Toolchain & Runtimes HSC Meeting

Monday, April 12, 2021

== Introduction

* Christoph promotes the T&R github repository
* Christoph reports that the T&R agenda approval has been requested (part of the next chair's meeting)

== GCC sync-up calls

* Christoph gives a quick overview of the last GCC sync-up call
** riscv-glibc repo is archived now
** riscv-newlib/riscv-dejagnu are planned to be archived soon
** Updates for riscv-gnu-toolchain: glibc 2.33, Linux 5.10, qemu 5.2.0
** Extension support status:
*** K: GCC and Binutils implementation done; testing (writing test cases) is ongoing
*** B: GCC and Binutils implementation done; testing (writing test cases) is ongoing
*** P: GCC and Binutils development (in parallel); testing in preparation
*** Z*inx patches done, testing is ongoing
*** Zce and V support is in planning

* Mark: we should define the term "done" of an implementation, so it is clear for reporting
* Mark: we should keep a todo list of open items

== LLVM sync-up calls

* Evandro gives a quick overview of the last LLVM sync-up call
** Use softPromoteHalf legalisation for fp16 (mitigating extra precision in calculations)
** Bitmanip intrinsics 
** LocalStackSlot pass (improving stack usage)
** Avoiding setHasMultipleConditionRegisters
** [RFC] Permit load/store/alloca for struct containing all scalable vectors (especifically, Zvlsseg)
** Support parsing multi-lib config from GCC (for mutual library compatibility)
** DAG nodes and pseudo instructions for CSR access (generic system register access)
** Fixing stack slot for argument types that aren't a multiple of 64 bits (improving stack usage)

== psABI TG

* Kito announces the first regular meeting on April 19
** Meeting will be held monthly
** Discuss PR merge policy
** Identify high priority work items

* Christoph would like to finalize the TG's agenda in that call as well

* Mark would like to see potential show stoppers for other TGs resolved first
** E.g. ELF flags/attributes

== CFP for Development Tools and Tool Chains

* Christoph describes the publicly known details
** Forum date: June 2, 2021
** CFP is open now
** CFP closes on Friday, April 23
** Invitation for everyone to participate on the CFP
* Collective brainstorming about potential talks
** State of the union
** Introduction talk (components, riscv-toolchain, how to get started with qemu)
** OpenJDK port
** V8 port
** GCC/LLVM extension status
** Performance (tools, benchmarks, â€¦)
** Debugging tools
** K, B, P, Z*inx implementation story
** Blockchain SIG
** AI SIG
** HPC group
** Krypto
** Code Size TG

== Open topics

* Christoph describes the SIG Code Opt situation
** TG Code Size remains like it was since its inception
** SIG Code Speed has currently nobody willing to chair it
** Therefore SIG Code Speed is not active at the moment ("parking lot")
** Current focus is getting ISA extensions supported in the toolchains
** Focus on Code Speed will follow later
** Any Code Speed related topics can be discussed in T&R meetings

* Phil mentions the current spinlock status
** Replacement of test-and-set locks by ticket-locks or MCF-locks in OpenSBI and Linux
** OpenSBI: merged (ticket-locks)
** Discussions about LL/SC guarantees/limits (-> constrained LL/SC sequences in unpriv spec)
** Linux: heated discussions on the mailing list (incl. usage of extreme wording)

