////
SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-4.0
////

:leveloffset: 1
= RVI Toolchain & Runtimes HSC Meeting

Monday, March 29, 2021

== Introduction

* Christoph promotes the T&R github repository
* Christoph mentions the new 'groups' repository
  Conversion Asciidoc -> Markdown needed
* Christoph shows the RISC-V software ecosystem wiki pages

== GCC sync-up calls

* Christoph gives a quick overview of the last GCC sync-up call
** Half precision data types: `__fp16` vs `_Float16`
** GNU branch management
** GCC vector support status update
** RISC-V K support status update
** RISC-V B support status update

== LLVM sync-up calls

* Christoph gives a quick overview of the last LLVM sync-up call
** Patches or bugs to note / briefly discuss
*** Reported bug in V support - feels too late for 12.0.0 at this point?
*** Parsing multi-lib config from GCC
*** 'v' inline asm constraint (-> like GCC does)
*** Enabling VIU75 and vector support
** Integer materialisation
** RFC: Support of non-default floating point environment on RISC-V
** RFC: `__fp16` on RISC-V

== psABI TG

* Kito gives an overview of the ongoing tasks
** Document is being revised
** GitHub issues are worked off (PRs are being merged)
** Added a README including list of links to external docs
** Working on a plan to move forward
** First regular meeting on April 19

== psABI-releated topics

* Kito names a list of psABI-related repos under riscv/*
* Some don't look maintained
* Question: what to do? i.e who will be responsible
* Christoph and Kito will work out a plan

== CFP for Development Tools and Tool Chains

* Christoph describes the publicly known details
** Forum date: June 2, 2021
** CFP is open now
** CFP closes on Friday, April 23

== Open topics

* Mark: There is an upcomming change in the extension review.
        SW SSC/T&R HSC will be included in the extension review process.

* Phil: Is there an update for the B-extension status? Timeline?
  Wei Wu: Should be done in 4-6 weeks
          Will send more details to the mailing list

* Ben: K-extension for GCC/LLVM: is there a psABI change needed?
  Jessica: No, the information just needs to go into the ELF attributes.

