////
SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-4.0
////

:leveloffset: 1
= RVI Toolchain & Runtimes HSC Meeting

Monday, May 10, 2021

== Introduction

* Christoph promotes the T&R github repository

== Toolchain Sign-Off Criteria ==

* GNU Toolchain version exists
* Nidal prepared one for LLVM
* Nidal presents the policy
** Request for feedback (mail or within the document)
* Christoph raises a couple of questions:
** Who is reponsible for enforcing the rules?
** Mark: in the end it is T&R, but they can of course delegate that
** Who will take over the changes on the way to mainline?
** There is no common process. E.g. LLVM merges everything (can be enabled by explicit flags).

== Requests for toolchain releases ==

* Request from architectural testing group for toolchain releases
* Currently we don't have resources for that
* Lowest effort: provide toolchain made from upstream stable branches
** Drawback: takes quite some time until new features are available (e.g. GCC releases once per year)
* Going with upstream/master is good either
** New features -> new bugs
* Backporting changes on a dedicated branch
** Significant development and QA efforts
** Requires dedicated team (-> no resources)
* Christoph: Should RVI provide toolchain releases? if yes, which features should be included?
** [General discussion, about what would be reasonable]
** Jessica: we might also ask the arch test group if recent binutils would not be sufficient

== Overlay TG ==

* Overlay TG was working on a specification of an overlay mechanism
** Arch-independent specification
** RISC-V specific high level design
* T&R has done document reviews
* psABI had a discussion about the ABI implications (reserved registers)
* What else can T&R do?
** T&R would like to not comment on the arch-independent part (i.e. speak for other archs)
** T&R has provided feedback to the RV-specific parts
** Ofer: Overlay TG is discussing ABI issues in the next meeting
** Mark: Where does the Overlay spec go in the long term (i.e. what is the goal)?
** Over: The long-term goal has not been defined yet.
** Jessica: It would be good to publish the arch-independet spec early.

== psABI TG

* Jessica gives an overview of the psABI TG status
** Continued discussion around Zfinx and PR merge policy
** Next meeting: May 17
*** Tentative agenda:
*** V
*** Zfinx?
*** Moving RISC-V attributes section forwards?
*** Further compact ABI discussion?

== GCC sync-up calls

* Next call will be on May 20, 2021
** Extension support status:
*** B/Zb* Binutils: in review
*** B/Zb* GCC: in progress
*** B/Zb* LLVM: fully supported
*** K/Zk* Binutils: in review
*** K/Zk* GCC: merged
*** P Binutils: in review
*** P GCC: in review
*** V Binutils: available
*** V GCC: tentative support
*** V LLVM: fully supported, including of variable and fixed length vectors and the variable length vector builtins API
*** Zfh LLVM: fully supported
*** Zce: requested by Tariq; implementation started

== LLVM sync-up calls

* Next call will be on May 13, 2021

== Open topics

* Philipp raises the question about moving/cancelling the next meeting as it would be on a public holiday in some countries.
* As there are no opinions, this will be discussed offline.

