////
SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-4.0
////

:leveloffset: 1
= RVI Toolchain & Runtimes HSC Meeting

Monday, March 15, 2021

== Introduction

* Christoph promotes the T&R github repository

== GCC sync-up calls

* Christoph gives a quick overview of the last GCC sync-up call

== LLVM sync-up calls

* Christoph gives a quick overview of the last LLVM sync-up call

== psABI TG

* Kito gives an overview of the ongoing tasks
** Want to do monthly meeting
** All open PRs and open issues have been reviewed
** Created new issues
** Working on policy for adding new content
* Mark: abstract requirements for adding new extension support
  E.g. OS should have enough information to know if the ELF is executable
  Could be named "ELF header policy"
* Mark: interaction/coordination with other groups?
  Kito: will reach out to other TGs
* Mark: what about other EABIs? Will there be an overall document?
  Kito: We did not reach out to EABI TG yet.

== psABI-releated topics

* Kito names a list of psABI-related repos under riscv/*
* Some don't look maintained
* Question: what to do? i.e who will be responsible
* Christoph and Kito will work out a plan

== Branch Management for GNU Toolchain

* Kito and Christoph have prepared a policy
* Feedback is welcome
* Policy will be proposed in the next GCC sync-up call by Kito

== CI/Testing

* Attempts from RVI to build up a CI/Testing infrastructure
* Efforts driven by John Leidel and Wei Wu
* Collecting requirements/ideas
* Call for contribution

== Runtimes for OpenCL/Vulkan/etc.

* Call for people who are interested in these topics

== Open topics

