////
SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-4.0
////

:leveloffset: 1
= RVI Toolchain & Runtimes HSC Meeting

Monday, June 7, 2021

== Introduction

* Christoph promotes the T&R github repository
* Christoph promotes the GCC/LLVM RISC-V sync-up calls
** Christoph mentions recent contributions from EPI developers (working on riscv-gcc)
*** Christoph proposes to invite them to the GCC sync-up call
*** Christoph will do that

== T&R Forum recap

* Christoph thanks all speakers, organizers, CFP participants and all otherwise involved persons
* Christoph asks for feedback
* Mark says he will work with Philipp on further improving RVI events
** Talks were half about HOW and half about WHAT
** Goal is to have more HOW talks
* Jeremy would like to have a more narrow focus of the talks to have a higher chance of acceptance
** Mark asks Jeremy to provide this feedback via email to Philipp and him

== Extension and feature support

* Christoph promotes the Extension and feature support page in the Wiki
** All RV ISA/ABI-related extensions and features
* Christoph asks for feedback and helping hands of people with the required knowledge
* Mark asks to provide a description what to put into the table cells
* Mark asks to announce the wiki page in tech announce
* Mark proposes to reach out to the debug group for GDB topics
** Philipp mentions that GDB is maintained by T&R people, which might know more
* Jessica asks how to deal with LLVM's sub-projects (clang, lldb, etc)
* Jessica asks about a FreeBSD column
** Mark proposes to discuss this offline and nominate people to driver this further

== Extension status

* Christoph summarizes the implementation status of Binutils/GCC patches for Zb*, Zk* and P
** Mark mentions Zb* will be in public review (45 days period) very soon
** Mark expects Zk* will be in public review in about a month
** Mark also mentions that Priv 1.12 is upcoming (expecting to have the H extension included)
** Further, Mark expects the V extension to be done by the end of the summer

== Integration and Experimental Branch (GCC)

* Kito reports the recent creation of FSF vendor branches for RISC-V
** https://gcc.gnu.org/pipermail/gcc/2021-June/236229.html
* Christoph asks about the transition from riscv-gcc to these branches
** Kito want so let existing PRs finish in the github repos
** At a certain point in time, that is not yet defined, he wants to stop accepting PRs in the github repo

== GCC copyright assignment policy

* Christoph reports, that the GCC steering committee has changed the copyright assignment policy
* Christoph proposes that riscv-gcc on github and the new RISC-V vendor branches adopt this changed policy
** Kito agrees to do so
* Christoph mentions, that the GNU toolchain signoff criteria policy document needs to be changed as well
** This document is currently under acceptance voting (by chairs)
** Christoph will take care, that either Jeremy and/or he will adjust the document after the current period
*** No objections to the proposal.
** Christoph proposes to remove the ACT pass requirement in the GNU toolchain signoff policy (as suggested during the voting reviews)
*** No objections to the proposal.
** Jessica proposes to clarify the testing paragraph in the document.
*** No objections to the proposal.

== Relax the canonical order checking of arch string for -march option

* Kito proposes to relax the ordering requirements of the -march string in GCC and LLVM
** https://github.com/riscv/riscv-toolchain-conventions/issues/11
** No objections to the proposal.
* Mark asks to work with Elisa on getting the ABI/API/Convention documents brushed up
** Goal is to generate PDF documents and put them on riscv.org

== psABI TG: current status

* Jessica reports latest dicussions of the psABI TG
* Jessica invites for the next psABI meeting on June 14, 2021

== CI for GCC patches

* Wei Wu reports the status of the CI service for GCC patches
** https://lists.riscv.org/g/tech-toolchain-runtime/message/208
** Patchwork is used to collect patchsets from gcc-patches
*** http://patchwork.ozlabs.org/project/gcc/list/
** The CI service regularly polls patchwork for new patchsets
** Trigger a Jenkins build for new patches (Ubuntu 18.04)
*** Build cross toolchain
**** RV64GC/LP64D and RV32GC/ILP32D
**** Newlib
*** Execute GCC and Binutils test suite

== Open topics

* Christoph asks if we can do something to help Overlay TG with their ABI issue
** Kito says, that he wants to make a proposal to resolve the issue

* Arun asks if there are objections for moving Zfinx forward
** This will be handled offline

